# Miscellaneous hints for Adebar usage

## General
*Adebar* only creates the scripts, it doesn't backup stuff itself. There are two
exceptions to this rule currently:

* it pulls the `packages.xml` (as it requires this to obtain additional details)
* it pulls the `wpa_supplicant.conf` directly.

Both actions are relative fast. But once you run the scripts to create the real
backups, things are different: especially pulling the "Shared Storage" (see
below) might take quite a while, as your SD cards might hold gigabytes of data.
At the same time, it puts quite a strain on your battery, as it needs to transfer
all those data. So make sure to have a power source connected to your device
during the backup process (you probably will have that, as ADB is mostly used
via USB – but you could also use "ADB wireless", and the *TiBu* stuff is using
WiFi as well – so I'd thought to better point this out).

### When running the real backup
* as pointed out above: have a power source connected
* with the "ADB Backups": always wait for the "complete" toast before confirming
  the next backup (or ADB might choke, backup won't continue)
* if ADB "chokes" (and the backup stalls): Check your backup directory for how
  far the process already went, adjust the script accordingly to start there,
  disconnect and reconnect your device, and re-start the modified script.


## Installation
Simply unpack into an empty directory, and run the script from there. No special
installation-steps required.


## Configuration
When running, *Adebar* checks for a file called `config` in the directory where
it resides itself. A sample configuration file is included as `config.sample`,
which you simply can copy and adjust. Your `config` file has only to contain the
settings you wish to change; this will usually be the DEVICE_IP (which is not
set by default) and/or the STORAGE_BASE.

What the settings are standing for is:

* directory settings:
  * `STORAGE_BASE=`: that's the "base directory" everything goes below. Here
    the command-line provided `OUTDIR` will be appended to. By default, this
    variable is empty, so `OUTDIR` is relative to the execution path. If you
    e.g. set it as `STORAGE_PATH=/home/me/backups`, and pass `moto_x` as
    parameter to `adebar_cli`, your files should end up below
    `/home/me/backups/moto_x`.
  * `USERDIR="userApps"`: sub-directory where the backup scripts will place the
    ADB backups of your user-apps into (relative to where they're run)
  * `SYSDIR="sysApps"`: Similar, for the data backups of your system apps
* TiBu specific stuff:
  * `DEVICE_IP="192.168.101.111"`: IP address of your device
  * `TIBU_PORT="8080"`: port the *TiBu* web server listens on
  * `TIBU_SDINT="/storage/INTERNAL/Storage-ALL.zip"`: URL path of the internal SD
  * `TIBU_SDEXT="/storage/SAMSUNG_EXT_SD_CARD/Storage-ALL.zip":` URL path of the external SD
  * `TIBU_BACKUPS="/TitaniumBackup-ALL.zip"`: URL path to the *TiBu* backups
* Disable features (optional, by default they're all enabled; set a value to "0"
  in order to disable a feature
  * `MK_APPDISABLE`: the script to "freeze/disable" apps
  * `MK_USERBACKUP`/`MK_SYSBACKUP`: create the script to backup user apps+data / system app-data
  * `MK_COMPONENTS`: create simple list for "disabled components" (for scripts & docu
    see `MK_PKG_DATA`)
  * `PULL_SETTINGS`: pull settings/configs from the device (currently just
    `wpa_supplicant.conf`, but there might be more in the future)
  * `MK_TIBU`: create the script to pull stuff from the TiBu web server
  * `MK_PKG_DATA`: process packages.xml for further details (requires PHP-cli)
    This creates the *script* to deal with "disabled components", plus the
    corresponding markup document, plus the markup document holding details
    on installed apps and their sources


## Shared Storage
This term refers to your SD card(s). *Adebar* offers two ways to retrieve data
from those:

* `com.android.sharedstoragebackup.ab` (for abbreviation issues, I'll refer to
  this as *SSB* from now on)
* [Titanium Backup](http://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.keramidas.TitaniumBackup)
  (abbreviated as *TiBu* here)

Scripts generated by *Adebar* cover both, so it's up to you which to use.

### SSB
As you might have already guessed from the above, *SSB* is offered via ADB
without the need of additional apps. It is simply triggered when backing up
data from its package. These data include everything from your device's
SD cards – both internal (`/0`) and external (`/1`). Timestamps of files
and directories are kept, but most files seem to come as "0775" (i.e. the
execute flag is set for user and group) – a condition you might have seen
when accessing FAT formatted drives in general.

While I'd prefer this backup to the one *TiBu* creates, specifically for
the timestamps, on some devices it has a little draw-back: My *LG Optimus 4X HD*
e.g. mounts the external SD card *inside* the internal one (`/sdcard/external_sd`),
which results in its contents backed up twice: once as part of the internal SD
(in the `/0` subdirectory), and another time as external SD in the `/1`
subdirectory. This not only makes the resulting backup file unnecessary huge,
but also takes much longer to backup.

### TiBu
*TiBu* offers an internal web server, which you can start manually via its options
menu. If running, you can pull 3 kinds of backups via HTTP:

* contents of the internal SD card (http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/storage/INTERNAL/Storage-ALL.zip)
* contents of the external SD card (http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/storage/SAMSUNG_EXT_SD_CARD/Storage-ALL.zip)
* all your *TiBu* created backups (http://<DEVICE_IP>:8080/TitaniumBackup-ALL.zip).

In case of my above mentioned *LG Optimus 4X HD* I just had to pull the contents
of the internal card, and had them all: As noted, the external card is mounted
inside – and of course the backups reside on one of the two.

Disadvantage here is that *TiBu* touches the timestamps of all files, so the
original timestamps are lost: All files appear as if they would have been created
at the time the backup was made.
